>> My name is William Turner and
I'm in Developer Technical Support
and I've probably worked with some of you over email.
So let's get started.
UIWebView is how you can take the internet and
rich content and display it directly in your app.
You don't need to exit to Safari,
its right there, part of your app.
So in this session we're going to
cover what UIWebView is, how to use it,
we'll dig into the best practices for using UIWebView.
Then we'll tackle some advanced topics,
some more interesting, trickier challenges,
and finally we'll cap it off with
some new editions in iPhone OS 3.0.
So UIWebView, rich content in your app.
Let's start off with text.
The challenge on iPhone is that text presentation is simple.
You have UILabel, UITextField,
TextView, you can draw strings directly,
but in all of these cases, it's
a single font, a single color.
That's great for a lot of uses, but
sometimes you just need to add some style.
So, here's another issue.
You've got documents and you want
to display them in your application.
Maybe it's a business app, you want to show a spreadsheet,
or you'd like to show word processing
document, how do you do this?
You need to display a PDF, iWork, you
want to view these documents but how?
Another thing, there's a big Web
out there, there's a lot of content,
you can enhance your user's experience
by tapping into that content.
You know, we can always launch
a URL to open it up in Safari.
But how much better would it be if we
could just keep it right there in the app?
Or maybe you're a web developer and you
already have a really incredible web app.
But you'd like to tap in to native functionality.
UIKit, Address Book, Accelerometer, MapKit, you name it.
Well, you don't want to start over, you
just want to enhance what you've got.
So the solution to all of these challenges is UIWebView.
It's a subclass of UIView, which
means you can embed it directly
in your View hierarchy, just like you would any other view.
And it renders a variety of content types that we'll talk
about, it provides basic browsing function, forward, back,
reload, and it's powered by WebKit which is a first class
standard compliant rendering engine for web content.
WebKit supports the content types, of
course HTML, and that's HTML 5.0, with CSS,
JavaScript, and also renders PDF directly.
You want styled text in your app?
Just use HTML.
You can't get much easier than that.
So UIWebView also adds documents.
WebView converts these documents to HTML and then WebKit
renders them and then that result is displayed in UIWebView.
The supported types of documents include iWork
06 and newer, Microsoft Office 97 and newer,
and now in 3.0 we've added rich
text and rich text directories.
So UIWebView is the solution to all these problems.
Use it when you want to display style content, show
document previews, embed web resources in your application,
and you want to extend web apps with native functionality.
So that's what UIWebView is.
Now let's talk about how to use it.
So I've got a couple design patterns to talk
about but I won't get too academic with you.
We've got UIWebView which is the main class, and then
you've got UIWebViewDelegate which is a protocol that your,
one of your controllers in your application, probably a
view controller will adopt this protocol and that's a way
for the WebView to notify the controller
when a load is happening, when it's finished,
or if there's an error, and allow you to handle that.
And then the smaller, the bit players in this little cast
are the URL's, your HTML content, and JavaScript of course.
So how do they interact?
Well it's probably going to start with your controller,
it's going to request that the WebView load a URL
or just some HTML data directly, and anytime
the WebView is asked to load a resource,
it goes right back to the delegate
and says do you want me to load this?
Because sometimes you might not want it to load that or
you may want to take some modifying action with the load.
Then it will start loading the request and this could
take some time because it's often a network activity.
And when it finishes or if there's a problem, it'll cap
it off by letting the delegate know what's happened.
The life cycle of a WebView.
So there's a little caveat I want to touch on
here, mostly you've probably, it's pretty obvious,
you start off by creating the WebView and then you're going
to set its delegate, you're going to load the content,
work with the content, do whatever you need to do,
and then at some point you're done
with it and you want to release it.
We just have to insert one really important step here.
Before you release your WebView, set the delegate to nil.
The reason for this we'll dig into more depth
later but it has to do with multi threading.
WebView does a lot of stuff in the background for you so
it doesn't block your apps, your application's execution.
However, if you release the WebView and it's delegated as
a nil, some of those background activities may come back
and find themselves talking to an
invalid pointer and we don't want that.
So another issue of working with WebView is how do you
communicate from the Objective-C code to your native code?
Or back and forth?
So you'd like to execute some JavaScript directly in
your web content, this turns out to be extremely easy.
The WebView has a method called
stringByEvaluatingJavaScriptFromString.
So perhaps you got into a JavaScript
function, it's called Insert.
So an Objective-C would just put together a string
with the text insert, and you pass it to this method.
Then the Insert function in the JavaScript and the
content will get called, and if it returns anything,
that will get passed back through this method as well.
Going the other direction from JavaScript to
Objective-C, this turns out to be a little trickier
because there's not really an explicit API.
But when would you want to do something like this?
Well the great example is if your web content has
AJAX running, and you get data back asynchronously
and you'd like to update something in your native UI, maybe
you want to update a status, or display a list of items
in a native table view, so when that JavaScript
handler, when that AJAX handler gets called,
you need some way to pass that
information up to the Objective-C layer.
So like I said, there's no explicit API for this.
But you can tap into that delegate method where again,
when the WebView asks the controller, its delegate,
if it should load a request, we're going to sort of
overload this with some additional functionality.
Basically what we do is we create a
URL that's with, got a dummy host.
That's, you know, not a real URL
and we're going to use the path
to specify the command we want to execute an Objective-C.
So this is what it might look like.
Obviously, that's not a real URL.
So we might use window.location to trigger a load.
So in our delegate we test the URL.
The first thing we do is we grab the host out of it
and we just do string compare and
we see if it matches my JavaScript.
Then we know that we're not really
loading real requests here.
We're doing something special.
So then, we grab the command, which we're using
the path for, and we might have multiple commands
that we test the command to see which one it
is and if it matches, then we do something.
And I'll show you a demonstration
of this a little bit later on.
So putting UIWebView to work.
We've got WebView and WebViewDelegate, the
message flow between the delegate and the WebView,
that really important life cycle detail of
setting the delegate to nil before releasing,
then we talked about how we communicate back and
forth between the native content and the web content.
Both from Objective-C into JavaScript and
then back from JavaScript into Objective-C.
So now, let's build a little hybrid application
that combines some web content with
some Objective-C functionality.
Here's what it looks like, very simple, it's got the
embedded HTML content which will have a little bit of CSS
and a little bit of JavaScript but any of you web developers
out there will laugh when you see how simple it is.
And we've got some native components,
we've got of course the WebView itself,
and we've got a UI toolbar at the bottom.
And in that toolbar, we have a text field.
And then we had hooked up some communication
between the WebView and its native code.
And when we hit that HTML button, it's going to show
an alert, and that, you could actually do that just
with plain JavaScript, but I thought an alert
was the simplest way to show you how this works.
And then when we enter text in the text
field, we're going to use JavaScript
to inject that into the DOM of the web content.
Again, nothing too complicated but interesting enough.
So let's switch over, alright, so I'm going to go to Xcode,
I'm going to create a new view controller based application.
I'm going to call it hybrid app, and save it to the desktop.
Now the first thing I want to do is go in and the
template has provided me with a view controller,
but to speed things up I went ahead and wrote it earlier.
So we're just going to throw away the one they gave
us and we're going to drag in this one that I wrote.
Then I'm going to copy it in and then I'm going
to grab this simple little webpage I wrote
and make it a resource in the project.
So let's have a quick look at that webpage.
Like I said, very simple, the whole
thing fits on the screen.
Just have a little bit of CSS at the top,
then we have our two JavaScript functions.
Now the one, the insert, we're
going to call from Objective-C,
and you see it does some very basic DOM manipulation
and then down here we have this
function called invoke Objective-C
and that does windowed out location to load that dummy URL.
The HTML itself, also very simple, we just have the button
and the little prompt here and then an empty DIV container,
which is where our injected text will go.
So now, I'm going to look at the
header file for the view controller.
This tells us a lot about the UI we're going to build.
We see that it's a WebView delegate and it's also a text
field delegate so again, TextView is like web views.
Use a delegate mechanism to communicate with a controller.
Now we have three native elements here, the
WebView, the text field, and the toolbar
and we have IB outlets for each of those.
We're going to go kind of slow with interface
builder in case you're not too familiar with it.
So here, we have our Nib file and this is our
view controller and this is the basic view.
The first thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to find a toolbar and I'm going
to drag that in to the bottom of my view here.
Now toolbars can have multiple items and
they position these from left to right.
Now the default item is not interesting
to me, I want just a text field.
And I want to place it down here, but
I'd like this text field to be centered.
So to do that I need to use some flexible space items.
And that's just a positioning tool for toolbars.
I put this in here, and boom it pushes it all the way over.
So I'll need one more, just to
balance it out so it's centered.
Now the arrows you see on there won't actually display
at runtime that's just a note for
you so you know what's going on.
I can stretch this out and that's pretty good.
Finally, I need to add my WebView.
So drag that down, it sizes itself to fit the space, and
the next step is to connect all my outlets and my delegates.
So from my file's owner, I have a text
field and a toolbar and the WebView.
Going the other way, select the WebView and now I've
got the delegate, which goes back to my file's owner,
and let's get the text field and connect it.
And that's it.
Our UI's done.
Let's go back to Xcode.
I'm going to build and run it so
we can see what this looks like.
Alright, so we've got our web content here,
scrolling forth, let's try out this HTML button.
And there we go, pretty cool.
Alright, let's try the text, just
type something simple in here.
And there it goes.
So from Objective-C we're calling JavaScript, which inserts
arbitrary text that we want into the DOM of our content.
One more time, and you see it just scrolls on down.
So click here, we distance the keyboard.
Let's go back and look at the code, see how this works.
So we'll switch to this file.
So it's not too big a file but to make it simpler
I'm just going to fold up all these methods, okay.
So the first block at the top here, this is
all of our kind of life cycle manipulation.
I'm not going to worry about it too much but I'm going
to open these up so you can see when the view unloads
which can happen in response to a low memory
notification, I'm setting my outlets to nil
but before I set the WebView to nil
I'm setting the delegate to nil.
Likewise, in the dealloc I do pretty
much exactly the same thing.
So now let's go up to viewDidLoad so,
this is when things first get started.
I've dragged my webpage in as a resource so
that means it's bundled with my application.
So at runtime I want to find that bundle, that file, and
load it up as a string and pass that string to my WebView.
So the first thing I do is I get its path
and then I weave the file in as a string.
And then I tell the WebView to load that string.
There's no external URL upon which this depends.
So the base URL is nil.
Now we get into the interesting stuff.
This is what happens when we try to load a new page.
We get this delegate method called
webview:shouldStartLoadWithRequest:navigationType.
The navigation type might be the user click to
link, or the header Back button or Forward button.
Now in this case the navigation type would
be other because JavaScript triggered it.
So just like this on the slides, we get the host, we
compare it, if it's a match we go in, get the command.
If it's a match, here we put together our alert view, just
very simple, our title, message, and the Cancel button.
Now after this, we return No because
they should load request,
that's your chance to say yes you may or no, you may not.
So we don't want to actually load anything
here, we're doing something different.
But in all other cases, we would return yes.
So now, let's look at what happens when we enter some text.
This TextFieldDelegate method is called when
you hit the Return key on the iPhone keyboard.
Again, we're taking the string from that text field
and we're wrapping it into this insert function.
So it's being passed as a parameter.
And you know that we're single quoting it here.
Then we pass that to the WebView and next we just clear out
the text field so it's empty and ready for the next time.
And we'd return yes because we
do want to allow it to return.
Some of you may be thinking wow you just took arbitrary
text and just passed it through and that's not very safe.
Well you're right, if this were a real app, I would want
to take this text and check and see if it's got any quotes
or other extra characters that could
cause some problems and filter those out.
But I wanted to keep things simple for this.
So let's go back and run the app one more time.
And see some of this in action again.
So there's the button, and then down here we
enter our text, and it just goes right in.
And there we go.
Very cool.
So you can see it's very simple to combine
native functionality with web content in an app.
So now, we've talked about what UIWebView is and
how to use it, let's get into best practices.
And best practices sometimes kind of sounds like
someone's lecturing you about what to do, what not to do,
but what I really think it is, is it's knowing about
what you're using so you can get the most out of it.
With anything, it's always using
the right tool for the right job.
And with UIWebView, there's some jobs
for which it's absolutely the right tool
and other jobs for which it's not the best tool.
So let's talk about what's in a web
browser and what's in UIWebView.
On Mac OS X we provide the full WebKit
framework, completely exposed to developers,
so they can build their own web browsers.
Well let's see what's in that.
Wow 125 different classes, and some
of these are DOM manipulation classes,
script handling classes, web content
classes, frames, etcetera.
Twenty-seven protocols for communicating
with delegates and other objects.
Over one thousand API's.
Now on the iPhone we have UIWebView.
one class.
WebViewDelegate, one protocol.
A total of twenty API's.
So I'm going to go out on a limb and
say you don't have everything you need
to build a full web browser with UIWebView.
And there's a reason for that.
The iPhone has an incredible web browser already.
So with UIWebView it's about presenting your content.
It's a lightweight presentation layer over WebKit.
It's optimized for presenting style content,
your HTML, your JavaScript, etcetera,
and it works best when you know the content.
So if you've got an existing website or a website that's
relevant to your application, it's a known domain,
that's great, that's perfect with UIWebView.
But general browsing, you can get
into a little trouble there.
Just the user starts clicking links
and soon they're all over the web,
they're ten miles from where they started with your app.
It doesn't really make sense.
So that delegate method shouldStartLoadWithRequest
is your chance
to exercise some control over what's shown in your app.
And you might say well I'll start off with
a domain that's appropriate, my domain,
and any request that exits my domain, instead of showing
it in my app, maybe I'll just launch it in Safari
and then the user can have a real browsing experience.
Or maybe I'll prompt them to see if
they'd like to exit and go to Safari.
But just allowing yourself to spider all over the
web isn't going to work very well with UIWebView.
There's also memory consumption to talk about.
So UIWebView does require significant resources.
Think about the Internet for a moment
and what's the largest webpage out there
All the images on it, the JavaScripts that might
take several minutes to run, megabytes potentially.
So with the WebView its memory footprint is really
predicated by the size of the content you load on it.
There's no official limit on how big a webpage can be.
So that can be a problem with WebViews.
And finally data may be cached internally by WebView
or by some internal frameworks on which it depends.
And you don't have an explicit mechanism for releasing
that cache in the case of a low memory situation.
So you know, content is a consideration.
So what about multiple web views?
Well I'm not going to give you a hard and
fast rule on this because there isn't one.
But just keep in mind, more content equals more memory.
Be conservative in your use of web views.
Let's consider JavaScript for a moment.
So JavaScript is really fantastic and WebKit's
a really fast processing engine for it.
But on the iPhone you really want to watch
out and make sure your scripts are fast.
They really, they have to finish within ten10 seconds
and if you asked me personally I wouldn't want a script
that took that long on a web page I was using.
But if you've got longer scripts, break them down
into chunks and then execute each chunk serially.
There's also a little bit to think
about with power consumption.
Network is one of the major power consumers on the
device, the others being the screen and disc I/O.
So you want to avoid rapid polling with AJAX where
you're just bouncing off the server every second
or every thirty seconds and try to batch lots
of small data transfers into larger chunks.
Threads. So I mentioned earlier
that you want to set the delegate
to nil before you really selectView
and that this had to do with threading.
Well first of all before I get into that,
you need to know that you need to know
that UIWebView should only ever be accessed
on the main thread of your application.
Of course that's true for all UIViews.
Be extremely careful if you are threading in your app
that you're not handling any views off of the main thread.
Now UIWebView uses background threads to
download its content and to render it.
So the benefit of this is your application won't block.
You can create a web view, tell it to go off and
load something and your app will keep running,
keep being responsive while the web view
is doing this work in the background.
And it'll just come up and be presented
to the user when it's ready.
But this is why we have to set the delegate to nil.
Those background requests if the web
view gets released and delegate goes away
and they come back, we could have a crash.
We don't want that.
So just, it's very easy, just set
the delegate to nil before releasing.
A lot of developers ask me about how
to get touch events in a web view.
Not to be manipulated by their content but to
handle something extra in the native logic.
And they will, maybe I can subclass UIWebView and
override the UI responder events for handling events.
Well the problem with that is that
UIWebView's internal view hierarchy is private,
it's complex and it's not safe for
developers to go and tamper with.
And event handling goes deep into this view hierarchy.
So instead what we suggest is not
subclassing UIWebView, there's a better way.
You can do it at the window level.
You can subclass the window because all events will
go through the window before they get to any view.
So you override sendEvent.
And in sendEvent the very first thing you should do is
call super sendEvent because I use the word observe.
You should only observe the events, you should not
tamper with them or try to modify them in any way.
So if you see that an event is going on that
you're interested in, it's perfectly legitimate
to add some extra functionality on your part.
But you don't want to interfere
with the existing functionality.
So always call super.
Now it goes without saying that if the changes
you want to do are at the content level,
then you should really just stick
with the JavaScript event handlers.
They're very powerful and will let you
do just about anything you need to do.
So let's take our existing demo and
add some touch event handling to it.
So where we last left our web app we've
got the ability to enter some text.
Now the first thing I've noticed is I can't scroll
down because as soon as I do, the keyboard goes away.
That's a bit frustrating.
So the first thing I'm going to do is
I've prepared some little snippets of code
and I'm going to add these in to the demo.
Now to keep the keyboard from going away when I
don't want it to go away, the first thing I'm going
to do is add a little Boolean that
I can use to track the state.
And this I'm calling textfieldShouldResignFirstResponder.
Resigning first responder is how the keyboard goes away.
And in this case, there are sometimes when
I don't want to resign first responder.
So what I'm going to do is add
implementation of another text delegate method
and this one's called textfieldShouldEndEditing.
And that's what happens when first responder,
when it tries to resign first responder.
But I'll use my Boolean and say well if this isn't
set, I'm not going to resign first responder.
But if it is set, then I'll go ahead and
resign but reset that flag back to nothing.
So let's run the app again.
And enter some text, and some more, great now I can scroll.
I'd like to just tap and have the keyboard go away now.
But I can't get rid of the keyboard.
So I'm going to have to add some more code.
Now I talked about subclassing UIWindows.
So I have the subclass of UIWindow written that
I'm just going to add right in to the project.
So let's look at this subclass.
Well the first thing I see is a protocol at the
top, it's a tap observer protocol that I've created.
And this is a way for the window to
communicate back with some controller object
that is interested in getting tap events.
So then the window itself, I have
the view that I'm observing,
so I'm only carrying about tap events in one view.
And I have some controller, I don't really know what
type it is, but I know that it conforms to this protocol.
And then I have some properties to manage those variables.
So here this is very simple.
We have send event which is the workhorse and the first
thing I do is I call super, and then we go down and I want
to do as much filtering of the event handling as
possible because it's possible for events to flow
through the system very rapidly if
the user's doing a touch that moves
across the screen, that will result in a lot of calls.
So I want to minimize the work I do.
The first thing I do to eliminate events I'm not interested
in is I see if I don't have a view that I'm observing
or a controller that is observing, I just stop right there.
The next thing I do is I get the touches in the event.
I'm only interested in events with a single touch.
So if the count of touches is not 1, I stop right there.
Moving forward I get the touch out
of the event and I check its phase.
So a touch can have a begin, a moved or an end phase.
I'm only interested in touches that end.
So if we're still, have gotten this far, I have
a slightly more expensive call which is to see
if this touch occurred in the view that I care about.
So I actually use isDescendentOfView because
it could be in any sub view within that view.
If it's not, then I return.
The last part is a little trickier.
So what happens when you have a single tap?
You get a tap count of 1.
What happens if you have a double tap?
We actually get two separate event messages.
The first one has a tap count of
1, the second has a tap count of 2.
So when you get the tap count of 1 you have no way of
knowing if a tap count of 2 is about to follow it up.
So what we do is I'm just going to delay execution
of my response to the tap by half a second.
This is an NSObject method called
performSelectorWithObjectAfterDelay.
And then I wait.
And in the next half second, if the double tap comes in,
I can use cancelPreviousPerformRequestWithTarget to cancel
that request and I will ignore the double tap.
If a double tap never comes then this forward tap method,
which is just a little helper method in my own class,
will take place and my controller will
be informed that the user tapped my view.
So it's pretty straightforward.
The next thing we need to do is go back to our controller
and add some code so it actually uses this new window.
The first thing I have to do is in the header
of the controller, import my window class,
and then I want to add conformance to that protocol.
So now my controller conforms to the tap
observer protocol in addition to these others.
That takes care of the header file.
Now in the implementation I have to actually start
observing so I'm going to do that and view will appear.
Or view did appear.
So I've written this code that just drops in here.
So what this does is I get the window from my
view and I cast it to a tap observing window.
Then I set its view to observe to be my web view
and I set the controller that observes to be myself.
Then to be good about this, when the view
disappears, I don't want to continue observing.
So I'm going to help the window be
more efficient by stop the observing.
So that just sets these properties back to nil.
And the biggie of course is responding to the tap.
So what are we going to do with that?
Well in responding to the tap, I just have to do two very
simple things, I set my personal textfieldShouldResign flag
to yes and then I ask the text field to resign.
So when there's a tap I want the keyboard to drop out.
The only thing that's left is going
into my main Nib and changing my window
to be not just a UI window, but a tap observing window.
Why don't we go back to the app, and run it.
So let's enter some text and we can scroll,
great, tap, and the keyboard drops out of sight.
Let's go back in and let's try double tap, keyboard stays.
Single tap keyboard disappears.
So it's that easy.
Going back to the code just one last look at
the event handling here, we start with super
and then we do some filtering,
so we minimize the work we do.
And then we, then what really matters is handling
the exact kind of event you're interested in.
I'm caring about phase ended single taps but it
could be any event, it could be a multi touch event.
It's really up to you and what you
want to do in your application.
So there's some best practices for UIWebView
then we demoed how to handle touch events,
which a lot of developers have asked us how to do that.
Let's talk about some advanced topics.
So in this, I'm going to talk about NSURLConnection, which
is a foundation level technology, and then I'm going to talk
about handling HTTP authentication in UIWebView.
Next we'll explore links that open in new windows, how to
save and restore state with UIWebView and then we'll finish
up with offscreen rendering which is basically taking
the content of a web view and creating an image from it.
Let's start with NSURLConnection.
So this is a lower level API but it's very simple to
use and it's how you can download content directly
which turns out to be a very powerful tool.
So once again, it works with a delegate API and, the,
create a connection, you give it a URL request just
like you would give your web view and it can call back to
your delegate as data is received or if there's an error.
So it has two modes of operation, it has a
synchronous mode and an asynchronous mode.
Don't use the synchronous mode, it blocks.
So if you do a synchronous connection
to retrieve some data from a server,
your app is going to sit right there
and spin until it has all that data.
You don't want to do that on the main thread,
and you might think well I'll just create a
separate thread and do that on my separate thread.
Well that's really not the best approach either because
that creates a threading complexity in your application.
Instead if you use the asynchronous mode, our foundation
in the background will do the threading work for you
and you don't have to worry about that complexity.
So it's fundamental for a lot of advanced use cases.
Let's look at one of those right now.
HTTP authentication.
So UIWebView, I think I mentioned
it's not a full browser replacement.
One of the things it doesn't do for you is
automatically provide a UI for authenticating
to some site that's protected with HTTPAuth.
However there's a simple way and a tricky way.
The simple way for you to handle this is just to embed
that authorization information directly in the URL request.
If you do that, you should use HTTPS
so that, that information is secure.
Now if you do want to present a UI for
authentication, here's where NSURLConnection comes in.
You create a separate connection for the URL
and in the connection delegate you'll
get a didReceiveAuthentication challenge
And then you can provide your custom UI to the
user, they can enter the username, their password,
and what you're going to do is you're going
to store those credentials for the persistence
of the session which is the lifetime of the app.
Then you go back to your web view and you load that
URL request and it will use the cached credentials.
Now you might say well but now I'm
downloading all that content twice.
Well you could do that, but you don't have to.
With NSURLConnection you can path an NSMutableURL request
and in the mutable request you can set the HTTP method.
So usually you probably use get or post, but if you just
use the header method, you'll only get the header back
from the server and you won't download
any of the body content.
So links that open in new windows,
there's two ways this works.
Its target="_blank" and JavaScripts window.open().
Both of these are ignored by UIWebView because if you
think about it the web view is just a view in a window,
it has no knowledge of how you want
it to suddenly pop open a new window.
So it just silently ignores these requests.
If you're dealing with content, well, the first thing is
if the content is something you
control, just don't use those links.
Just use standard links that will open in the same view.
Now if you're dealing with content you don't control
directly and you know that this content has links that open
in new windows, here again, NSURLConnection.
You download the content into memory, and you can
parse through and replace those instances and then load
that data from memory directly to the web view.
And the links you might want to set
them up so they will just open to right
within that or you can do whatever you want.
You can, just as we did with the JavaScript to use the
webviewShouldLoadRequest, you can modify those links
so that your web view delegate has a way of knowing that you
want them to open in a different window or a different view
or have some other functionality and
then deal with them, as you want.
Saving and restoring states.
So with the iPhone we emphasize that
the user can exit your app at any time,
a phone call could come in, they
could hit the lock, whatever.
So you want to be ready to shut down instantly
and the next time the user runs the app,
you want to be able to return right to the same place.
So how do you do this with a web view?
Well once again this is one of those
areas where if you control the content,
this turns out to be a very easy problem and
if you don't control the content it turns
out to be a somewhat more difficult problem.
If you control the content then what you want to
do is keep your JavaScript and your CSS in line
and you want to minimize external resources.
That way you can do the same thing with NSURLConnection,
you can download it separately from memory,
pass it to the web view and then if your app terminates
you just write what's currently in memory out to a file.
And the next time you launch you just
have to see if that file's there.
And then load the content from that
file and push it right to the web view.
And this works great again if the
JavaScript and CSS is in line.
If it's not, then you can end up with
something that doesn't look quite right.
The reason for this is NSURLConnection
downloads a single URL.
WebView will download the URL and
then each external resource in it,
it uses additional connections to download those.
So if you don't control the content and you're going
to try to do this robustly you would actually have
to download the main URL and then look
through and find all the other resources
and download those as well so you have them in memory.
And that can be kind of tricky.
Finally offscreen rendering.
So you've got a webpage and you'd like to
show a thumbnail image or a full size image,
you want to capture it, render it somehow to an image.
Well this turns out to be fairly straightforward.
You just load your content in a web view and then you
use some UIGraphics methods to render those contents.
You would access the web view's core animation
layer and render that after it's been drawn.
And it's not too hard.
There are two challenges you have to deal with.
The first is that Webview won't
render unless it's in a window.
And if you want to do this offscreen, it won't
be in a window unless you create a new window
and place it offscreen and that's what we'll do.
The second thing is that drawing is asynchronous.
So as I mentioned UIWebView uses threads both to
download content and actually also to its drawing.
So when your web view delegate
gets the loaded finished message,
that just means that we finished
grabbing all the content off the web.
It doesn't mean that we've actually
finished drawing all the content.
So you'll have to basically build in a little
delay just like we did with the event handling.
So now we're going to demo an application
that does some offscreen rendering.
I'm going to create a new project, again I'll use
the view based template, call it offscreen renderer.
And again, the first thing I'm going to do is go
in and remove the view controller that was provided
with the template and replace it
with one I've written already.
Okay. So let's look at the other file because that's going
to tell us a lot about the UI that we're going to build.
This is very similar to the other app as you see.
We've got the web view delegate and the text view delegate.
We have a different group of native
elements here to work with.
We have an activity indicator, an image view,
a label, our offscreen window, and a web view.
We also have this flag that's a little state variable saying
whether or not we're in the process of rendering a page.
Now we have properties to manage each of
these variables and you'll notice that all
of them are IB outlets except for the web view.
The web view as it turns out, we're going to
create in code instead of in interface builder.
So let's switch and open up our Nib
and we'll close these other Nibs.
And then we start off with this NPView and this time
I'm going to build my UI just a little differently.
Instead of having a toolbar at the bottom, I'm going to put
a navigation bar at the top and put my text field in there.
So find the navigation bar, right here, and find
the text field, and we drop that in the middle,
and you'll notice that this is positioned
in the center instead of over to the side.
Navigation bars have, instead of just an
arbitrary set of items positioned left to right,
it has a center item and a right item and a left item.
And so we're using the center item and we'll give them
a little stretch to fill, and the next thing we want
to do is put a label at the bottom of our display and
this will just be a little status message, just a,
I'm going to center that label and
clear out that placeholder text.
Next thing is an image view that will show
the final rendered contents of our webpage.
I'll drag that down here, there we go.
And while we don't have our content, I want to
show an activity indicator over top the image view.
And then I'm going to set that to hide when stopped.
So we won't see it except when it's actually working.
The last thing I need is my offscreen window.
So I'll just drag that directly
into the interface builder document.
And let's make our connections.
We have the files under, it's got its activity indicator,
and has the image view, and label, the offscreen window
and then finally we just have to set our text
fields delegate back to the file's owner.
And with that we can, we're ready to run.
So let's try Apple.com.
So there we go, an image representing web content.
You can see this is not web content, it's a real image.
Let's try another one, let's try developer.
And it looks like I must have made a typo.
Let's try, its offline?
Oh, even better.
Let's try store that'd better be online.
There we go, okay, so you can see it's just that easy.
We grab our web content and we draw it to an
image and present that image on the screen.
So let's look at the code and see how that's working.
Once again, I'm going to go ahead and fold
everything up, make this a little easier to look at,
you can see again this is not too big a project.
The lifecycle methods are exactly as they were before, I'm
setting the delegate to nil before I release the web view.
So let's start with when the text field begins editing.
Just because I'm a little lazy, I start
off the first thing I do is pop in the HTTP
for me, save a little typing just a convenience.
Now when we hit return, well we've
got a little more going on here.
Start up the activity indicator and it becomes
visible when you tell it to start animating.
Then I set the text fields text into my label.
So we can see what URL we're loading.
The next thing I do is I create a URL object from that.
Then I create my web view and I set its
size to be the same size as the image view
because basically whatever image you capture from the
web view is going to be the same size as the web view.
And you can also resize it later but
that's extra work we don't need to do.
I set the web view delegate to
self and I scale the pages to fit.
So depending on how the page is styled
it may or may not size itself to fit.
But if you use this property it will.
Then to my offscreen window, I
add the web view as a sub view.
And I tell it to load the request and then while
that's happening, again, that happens asynchronously
so now web view's gone off in the background to do the work.
I clear out the text field, I tell it to resign
first responder, so the keyboard goes away,
and I clear out any previous image in the image view.
And finally I set this flag renderingAWebpage equal to yes.
The reason for this is that when you go and load a
page that's got certain kinds of JavaScript in it,
you may get the load request more than once.
And you don't want to handle it more than once
in this case where we're rendering an image.
We just want to render the image one time.
Believe me it's enough work rendering it once.
So now we wait for the web view to finish loading.
Now remember when this method calls, this just means
the web view is finished downloading the content.
It doesn't mean it's actually finished drawing.
So here we use our flag to make sure we only do this once,
and then we're going to delay our rendering by a second.
That will give a chance for all the
drawing to take care of and make sure that,
because if you draw too soon you might end up with a
white image instead of the actual content you want.
The next thing is what happens in the rendering?
So this is some UIGraphics work, you'll get a lot more
information about that in some of the graphics sessions,
but we begin what we call an image context and
we make it the same size as the image view.
Then we take the web view's layer, it's a core animation
layer, and we render it into the current graphics context.
The current graphics context is
this one that we just created.
The next step is that we set the image view's image from
the image that we retrieved from the current context.
Then we finish that context so we've cleaned that up, we're
done with it and then we go ahead and remove our web view
from its super view, set the delegate to
nil, and then release the web view itself
and last of all we tell the activity
indicator to stop animating
which will result in a disappearing from the screen.
Let's have a look at that one more time.
And there we go.
So it's just that easy, rendering
content from a webpage to an image.
So those are the advanced topics and the sort of unsung
hero in almost all of the advanced topics is NSURLConnection
and its best use in its asynchronous mode.
So now we've talked about web view, and how to
use it, the best practices, and advanced topics
let's look at some of the cool new
features we've added in 3.0 now.
So CopyPaste.
The good news is, you get CopyPaste absolutely for free,
it's built into UIWebView, you
don't have to do a single thing.
You get all of the gestures, all of the functionality,
you can copy from a web view into native elements,
copy from native elements and paste into web view's text
area, or input on a text, on a webpage back and forth.
It's very easy, you can select
images, select text, the works.
Sometimes you may want to disable selection.
If you've got some JavaScript on your page, it
adds behavior to something with certain events.
The selection may not play well
with that when that UI pops up.
So the easiest way to deal with this is to use the
cascading style sheet selector WebKit user select
and set that to none.
But don't do that for the whole document, just do it on
a per element basis for the ones where you don't want,
you explicitly don't want to tamper with the
built in, with the functionality you're providing.
Because otherwise you want the user to be able to basically
have the same experience they have with all other content.
They can copy it whenever they
want, paste it whenever they want.
So the other big new thing are the data detectors.
These automatically convert data in a
page that is formatted a certain way
like a telephone number or a URL, into clickable URLs.
The telephone number would make a phone call, the
clickable URL, the link would go to another page etcetera.
And there's a property on UIWebView called
data detector types and this is a bit mask
of the four types we currently provide which are phone
numbers, a type for links of course, you can specify none,
or you can specify all and there's a lot
of benefit to adding all because this means
that any data detector types we add in the future,
your app will automatically support
them without needing to recompile.
Use this instead of the detectsPhoneNumbers property.
That was what we had in 2.0 and that's deprecated now, so
when you're updating your apps to resubmit them to the store
with new features, take a moment and replace the
detectsPhoneNubmers with the data detector types.
So that's what's new in iPhone 03S
and that concludes this session.
We've got some additional information, you can talk to
Vicki Murley, she is our Safari Technologies Evangelist
and I encourage you to look at the documentation.
There's a class references and there's a
conceptual document called the URL loading system.
It's extremely useful in understanding how
to work with not just URLs but requests,
credential authentication, and URL connection itself.
You can find all that documentation
on the web at developer.apple.com
and it should also be something you can access from Xcode.
So you can download the current doc sets and
access that information right on your computer.